---
uid: ecca0c1c-9ff4-4930-a312-ffff27f4d704
title: ""
product: "postsharp"
categories: "PostSharp;AOP;Metaprogramming"
---
TODO: Move introduction text here


## The Search Path


## Overview

The PostSharp search path is the set of directories into which plug-in files (`.psplugin`) and assemblies are looked for. 

**Note.** The PostSharp search path is *not* related to the system path or the assembly private paths. None of these paths are used by PostSharp. 


## Default search path

By default, the search path contains the following directories:

* The directory containing the source module (i.e. the assembly being analyzed or transformed).

* The directory containing the project file.

* The **** `PlugIns` subdirectory of the PostSharp directory (e.g. `C:\Program Files\PostSharp 2.0\PlugIns`). This directory is called the **system-level plug-in directory. ** The complete location of this directory is stored in the `PlugInDirectory` property. 

* The `PostSharp 1.0` subdirectory of the user Application Data directory (e.g. `C:\Documents and Settings\userName\Application Data\PostSharp 2.0`). This directory is called the **user-level plug-in directory**. The complete location of this directory is stored in the `UserPlugInDirectory` property. 

When PostSharp is integrated in the MSBuild process and the default project is used, the following directories are also included in the path:

* The output directories of the project being built (e.g. `bin\debug`), where the dependencies have been copied earlier during the build process. 

* All directories specified in the **Reference Paths** tab of the project properties in Visual Studio. 


## Extending the search path

**Users** will typically add a directory to the Reference Path list present in the Project Properties dialog box. 

**Plug-in developers ** will add directories to the path using the `SearchPath` element either in application configuration file, plug-in configuration file or project file. 


## 

