---
uid: 2d090c65-1670-407b-9290-e053cdd6288f
title: ""
product: "postsharp"
categories: "PostSharp;AOP;Metaprogramming"
---
Every distribution of PostSharp contains two builds: release and diagnostic. The release build is used by default and should be used in normal situations. The diagnostic build should be used for troubleshooting.

There are two ways to execute PostSharp is diagnostic mode:

* Start **PostSharp Diagnostic Console** and check the option **Diagnostic Mode**, or 

* Set the MSBuild property `PostSharpBuild` to `Diag` as described in <xref:541CB3E3-9C3B-4E6F-B52F-FA7DC01F6EF9>. 


## Differences Between the Release and Diagnostic Builds

The release and diagnostic builds of PostSharp are significantly different. The release build is intended to be used by most users; it is optimized for performance. The diagnostic build is intended to be used by developers who work directly with PostSharp SDK. It is optimized for ease of development.

The differences between both builds are the following:

* The diagnostic builds emit declarations of the module in the same order as the input module; it is therefore possible to compare input assemblies using a text comparison tool. Some of the collection classes have different implementation and class hierarchy in the debug than in the release build.

* In the diagnostic build, PostSharp libraries are defended by many assertion and precondition checks. It makes it much easier to understand errors in user code.

* The diagnostic build writes nice and human-readable MSIL.

* The diagnostic build allows you to put comments in MSIL code so that you can more easily diagnose the problems.

* The diagnostic build is therefore significantly (about 10%) slower than the release build.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you program directly to PostSharp SDK, you should *always* use a diagnostic build for development and run tests against a release build. 

