---
uid: 51afbad2-d87d-4803-a376-201f9c518126
title: ""
product: "postsharp"
categories: "PostSharp;AOP;Metaprogramming"
---
Tracing often makes it easier to understand what happens in your program. This is also true with compile-time logic.


## Enabling Tracing

The tracing facility is totally disabled in the *release* build; you have to run the *diagnostic* build. Every distribution of PostSharp contains both builds. 

The easiest way to run PostSharp in diagnostic mode is to run the PostSharp Diagnostic Console (**postsharp-diag.exe**); if you installed PostSharp with the setup program, you should find a link in your Start menu. Check the box **Diagnostic Mode** and select the tracing categories you are interested in. Then click the Start button, and when the build is done click the View Details button. 

This utility does actually nothing else than building an MSBuild command line. Two MSBuild properties control tracing: `PostSharpBuild` should be set to `Diag` and `PostSharpTrace` should be a semicolon-separated list of trace categories. 

<code>msbuild *MyProject.csproj* /p:PostSharpBuild=Diag /p:PostSharpTrace="*AssemblyBinding;Project*" /v:detailed </code>



## Emitting Custom Tracing Information

If you want to write your own tracing information, you have to use the PostSharp tracing facility.

The design pattern to create a tracing category is to define a static class, for instance `MyTrace` with a singleton instance initialized to a new instance of the <xref:PostSharp.Trace> class. 

```csharp
internal static class MyTrace
         {
           public static readonly PostSharpTrace MyCategory = new PostSharpTrace("MyCategory");
         }
        
         MyTrace.MyCategory.WriteLine("Hello, world.").
```

